# Resume-Screening

Resume Screening Project

Finding a qualified candidate for a job from the thousands of applicants is frequently a difficult task for an employer. It takes a lot of time and effort for a company to classify resumes submitted for employment against positions that are vacant. Through our project, we aim to simplify this tedious process by implementing Resume Screening, which is performed using the sub-domains of Artificial Intelligence such as Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques to implement a resume recommendation system. Since the recruitment process is very time-consuming, to filter out top resumes from a list, we use Machine Learning models and segregate the candidates according to the job roles, which eases the task of the employer.

In our project, we are implementing NLP techniques like Stemming and POS Tagging as well as machine learning models such as K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Decision Trees, Logistic Regression and Random Forest for cross validation and Deep learning techniques NLTK and Cosine Similarity to build an effective Resume Screening System. According to our project’s findings, the proposed methodology has given results by using several NLP and ML techniques for preprocessing data, feature extraction and representation, model construction, and evaluation for the Resume Classification task. 

The results suggested that the TF-IDF vectorizer performed best in feature extraction and representation as the extracted features yielded excellent results on almost all classifiers. Therefore, NLP and ML approaches can be successfully used to create an effective RCS that automates the resume screening process, making it quicker and more transparent with little to no human participation.
